Hi, we're back with some more walkthroughs of typical Alteryx errors.
So, in this one, we are going to actually try and recreate the linear regression formula
using the linear regression tool from the old diamond dataset from the first project.
So, first off, if we just connect it
straight from diamonds to the linear regression model,
you can see an error already pops up,
saying at least one predictor variable must be selected.
So, if we just go ahead and select the ones that are in that formula,
so now we have a few,
it says no valid fields were selected.
We haven't selected target variable yet,
but it doesn't seem to let us, which seems odd.
So, what's going on here?
If we try and run it,
it just errors out on us.
The first thing we should always jump to is popping
in both a browse tool to the data and the select tool.
This both gives us the visibility into the data if we run this again
really quickly to see what's going on?
What does our data look like?
The select tool helps us check on the data type
which is typically what is triggering errors.
So, here again, we have to select the proper datatypes.
So, let's go ahead and select double for all of the pieces of our formula,
and make this a little bigger,
so you can see all these.
All right. So, if we run this again,
it automatically selected carat,
which is not the target variable we want.
We wanted it to break price,
but it won't let us select that.
Now, another reason it won't let as select that is because
the linear regression tool is expecting a numerical variable for its target variable.
If we look back at the select tool,
our price field here is still labeled as a V string.
So, if we update this field as well to be a double,
go back in linear regression tool,
now we can select price.
If we add a Browse tool here to the report, it should run,
linear regression takes a minute for it to run,
but we're not getting any errors which is good news.
You might see this often as well that
some invalid name has been replaced by something so,
in this instance, it's referring to that there's no model name here.
So, if we just fill this out,
that's going to remove that warning.
You can also get this warning when it comes to
the titles of the fields which we'll get into a little bit later.
So, if you can see here,
this is producing that formula that we gave you guys,
it's actually a little bit different.
I think that's some rounding issues,
but it's essentially the same estimates,
coefficient estimates for each of the variables.
Now, we're going to try and apply
the Score tool to another dataset and see how that works.
All right, let me grab this.
So, the Score tool basically takes the linear regression formula,
and it allows you to apply it to another dataset,
so we're going to input.
So, I actually made
some specific diamond datasets that try and show you what all can go wrong.
So, we're going to go ahead and run this and see what happens.
Okay. So, we got a error here.
Now, you can be confused because again it seemed like you had everything set up right,
but if you look down here,
it's saying that the variables carat,
cut_ord, clarity_ord are missing from the input data stream.
That's typically referring to this new dataset,
but if you look at it, it looks like it has carat,
cut_ord, and clarity_ord, but if you look a little bit closer,
the difference is there's no underscores here where there are underscores here.
So, it's a small thing,
but it's something that will mess Alteryx up and something you have to fix.
So, the Select tool is great for fixing that.
So, if we rename this so that it matches exactly
with the field name from the original dataset.
So, you also need to, again,
assign these the same datatypes,
or we'll do one where I don't assign one of them,
so we can see what happens.
Okay. So, if the datatype doesn't match,
you're going to get this other error where it's saying
basically that the datatypes don't match up.
So, if you don't make sure that all
of the datatypes and the field names don't match exactly,
you're gonna get a error,
and this is true for a lot of the tools inside of Alteryx.
So, you got to pay attention to
those details and look what the Select tool, what's going on.
But, now with this one,
now that we've fixed all those datatype issues and the field name issues,
we should get through it without any errors.
It's all right. Awesome. Now, that's
it for this video and we're going to talk through one more issue in the next.